---
title: "Breaking the Memory Bottleneck for Iterative Memory-bound Applications Via Persistent Kernels"
collection: workshops
# type: "Talk"
excerpt: 
permalink: /workshops/2022-12-02-HPC187
venue: "HPC 187 Workshop"
date: 2022-12-02
location: "Okinawa, Japan"
paperurl: #'https://doi.org/10.1145/3589236.3589242'
citation: 'Lingqi Zhang, Wahib Mohamed, Chen Peng, Meng Jintao, Wang Xiao, Endo Toshio, Matsuoka Satoshi, “Breaking the Memory Bottleneck for Iterative Memory-bound Applications Via Persistent Kernels (Unrefereed Workshop Manuscript)”, HPC 187 Workshop, Okinawa, Japan, Dec 2022. (Best Student Presentation)'
---

[More information here](https://www.ipsj.or.jp/kenkyukai/event/hpc187.html)

Iterative memory-bound solvers commonly occur in HPC codes. Spatial blocking optimizations of iterative solvers are directed towards improving the data locality of the code executed within a single time step of the solver. Temporal blocking optimizations combine multiple consecutive iterations in a scheme that requires the resolution of neighborhood dependencies. We propose a novel data-locality optimization scheme for memory-bound iterative kernels: PERsistent KernelS (PERKS). In this scheme, we target the elimination or reduction of data movements occurring in-between time steps. We eliminate or reduce the traffic to the memory by caching a subset of the output in each time step on on-chip resources to be used as input for the following time step. PERKS can be generalized to any iterative solver: they are largely independent of the solver's implementation, and run independently on top of spatial/temporal blocking optimizations. We implement PERKS in CUDA since Nvidia GPUs provide low latency device-wide synchronizations and a large volume of on-chip resources, i.e., scratch-pad memory and register files. We explain the design principle of PERKS and demonstrate the effectiveness of PERKS for a wide range of iterative 2D/3D stencil benchmarks (geomean speedup of 2.35x for 2D stencils and 1.53x for 3D stencils).